.\"/* Copyright © 2017,2018 by Pierre Lebleu (pticon)
.\" * All rights reserved
.\"
.\" * aker is licensed under the BSD 3-clause "New" or "Revised" License.
.\" *
.\" * Send bug reports, bug fixes, enhancements, requests, flames, etc., and
.\" * I'll try to keep a version up to date.  I can be reached as follows:
.\" * Pierre Lebleu (pticon)                          <pme.lebleu@gmail.com>
.\" */
.TH AKER 8
.
.SH "NAME"
.
.B aker
- A port knocking daemon
.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.
.SY "aker"
.I
.RI [ option ]
.YS
.
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.I aker
is a port knocking daemon.
.P
It gives you the ability to execute a command triggered by at least one port combination.
.P
Generally, we can use it to hide a management port like SSH and execute the given
.I firewall
rule to allow this client.
.P
It runs as a daemon, and is listening to right port sequence in order to execute the given command.
.
.SH "COMMANDS"
.
.TP
.B "\-h"
Prints usage information and a short summary of the available commands.
.TP
.B "\-c <config>"
Use this configuration file (see
.IR aker.conf(8) ).
The default value is set to @SYSCONFDIR@/aker.conf.
.TP
.B "\-f"
Run in foreground, do not daemonize.
.TP
.B "\-t"
Test the generated pcap filter and exit.
.TP
.B "\-v"
Display version number and exit.
.
.SH "FILE"
.
The configuration file called
.B aker.conf (8)
is where all the directives take place.
.
.SH "SIGNAL"
.I aker
will reload the configuration file on the
.B SIGHUP
signal.
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.
aker.conf(8)
.
.SH "AUTHOR"
.
Pierre Lebleu (pticon) <pme.lebleu@gmail.com> is the author of
.I aker
and creator of this manual page.
